---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

# A Politician’s Misfortune
## Assignment 3

  This week, we were assigned the task of reacting to [this article](https://qz.com/1352568/running-for-office-is-hard-when-you-have-a-porn-stars-name-this-makes-it-worse/) about a Wikipedia contributor trying to publish a Wikipedia article about a female politician with the same name as a porn star. After reading it, I am in support of Erica Herzog, the Wikipedia contributor who wrote an article for Catalina Cruz and attempted to get it published to the site. For a second, forget about the fact that Herzog was considered "problematic" in the Wikipedia community. This issue comes down to ethics. A Colombian immigrant named Catalina Cruz, who is also a minority, is trying to run for office to make a difference, but has the misfortune of having the same name as a porn star. She came here as an undocumented immigrant and I'm sure she's worked hard to get to this point considering where she started. Allowing Catalina Cruz to have her own Wikipedia page would only help her campaign. Why not allow that woman to have a fighting chance? Wikipedia did not give her an article because according to their rules, she was not "notable." How could her Wikipedia article be denied when she had been mentioned in more than a few Spanish-language publications? Being mentioned in several publications should mean someone is notable somewhere. Herzog also stated that she had worked on the Wikipedia pages for other politicians who were less notable than Cruz. 

  Cruz was not the only one who was treated unfairly by the Wikipedia community; Erica Herzog was also treated unfairly. As "problematic" as Herzog might have been, Cruz's article should have been allowed to be posted to the site. Herzog's actions have nothing to do with the content of her contributions. In the article, she wasn't labeled as problematic for making incorrect or obnoxious contributions. Herzog was definitely treated unfairly. She stated that she was globally banned without even being given the chance to "defend herself." I read about [Wikipedia's global banning policy](https://meta.m.wikimedia.org/wiki/WMF_Global_Ban_Policy) and the purpose of the ban is to 
> help improve the safety of Wikimedia community members, the movement itself, and the public in circumstances where actions on local community governance level are either insufficient or not possible.

  So Herzog may have been banned because she had exposed an editor's real name on the site instead of using their username, or she was banned because other members in the NYC Wikimedia chapter board categorized her behavior as "harassment." With an editor's real name out there they could be located by someone in the Wikipedia community who wants to harm them. However, what do they classify as harassment? From what the article states, Herzog's behavior was nothing close to harassment. It sounds as if she's just a woman who's not afraid to express her opinion in a community that's only 9% women. Herzog said the issue had to do with her "criticism of the local leadership and [the] Wikipedia community's gender bias." I wouldn't be surprised if there were men who didn't like that. Both the harassment claims and the exposure of an editor's real name made Herzog a great candidate for a global ban because both make her look like a threat to the safety of other members of the community. So, globally banning Herzog was a fitting punishment (that is, if she actually was "harassing" anyone) and her efforts towards Catalina Cruz's Wikipedia article were ceased. Fortunately, Cruz won the primary despite not having a Wikipedia article and I'm happy about that. 

  But, I will say that Herzog's situation with Wikipedia has taught me that a lot goes into working with open source projects. Wikipedia has rules for the behavior of its members. Open source projects could have hundreds or thousands of contributions. What if someone made a contribution to an open source project, but it was nothing helpful in the slightest? What if a troll just decided to come along and mess something up? Having contributions go through an evaluation process or meet certain requirements before it's officially apart of the project is important; it makes sure something helpful or something of quality is being added to the project. In the case of Wikipedia, it's very easy to post or contribute to an article on the site. But, it could get deleted by other editors later on if they decide it's not good enough or worth having on the site. That is exactly why there is a long history of people making very incorrect but hilarious edits to Wikipedia articles. 

> Thanks for reading!
