---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---
# September 4th, 2018

  For the first assignment, our task was to contribute to openstreetmap.org, which is an open source map of the world. I decided to make a contribution pertaining to my neighborhood. Updating the map was very easy and the walkthrough was straighforward, which is great because it allows anyone to be able to update the map since it's easy. I noticed that not all of the fast food restaurants in my area were on the map, so I decided to update that. More importantly, I also noticed that my local beauty supply stores weren't listed on the map. 

  The two beauty supply stores I go to are extremely important to me because I do my own hair and I love beauty. The hairs sold at both stores is very affordable and they have a lot of different hair types and colors, which I love because I like to try new things with my hair. I always get braiding hair from the two stores I added. However, they have pretty much anything beauty related, including nail stuff. I love when my nails are done (even though I rarely do them because I like them long and they get in the way a lot), so I buy nail supplies from them as well. Having these stores close to my home is very convenient for me and I'm grateful for their presence. So I figured there would be another person out there that would greatly appreciate knowing that there are two good beauty supply stores in my neighborhood.

You can view the changes I made on openstreetmap.org [here](https://www.openstreetmap.org/user/lashana29/history).

> Thank you for reading!

# September 12th, 2018

This week, we were asked to read articles about free and open source software and its history. It was definitely interesing to read how free and open source software came about and what living with technology was like before my time. I can 100% understand why developers would want to see the source code of a new software. Being able to explore and play around with code back then was extremely important for the advancement of technology. For the [assignment](http://www.compsci.hunter.cuny.edu/~sweiss/course_materials/cs_ossd/assignments/assignment_02_readings.pdf), we were told to state "three of the most significant things that Richard Stallman has done to advance the rise of the free and open source software movement?" and to name two open source development key principles that stuck out to us.

## Question 1
### What are three of the most significant things that Richard Stallman has done to advance the rise of the free and open source software movement?

1. At a time when companies were cracking down on selling their software and making people who bought their software sign non disclosure agreements, Richard Stallman allowed people to view the source code of his team’s work, edit the code, use the code for their own purposes, and share the changes they made. Stallman worked in the Artificial Intelligence Lab at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Stallman helped keep open source alive and thriving at a time when it very well could have ended. 

2. Richard Stallman started the GNU Project and the Free Software Foundation (FSF). The FSF helped spread awareness about free software and helped people understand their cause. The FSF’s message was widespread. With more people knowing of the FSF, there were more discussions and thinking about free software. 

3. Stallman created the General Public License (GPL), which is a license that guarantees that any derivative work of an open source project remains open source. The license also allowed others to copy and redistribute the original code freely. This license helps keep open source projects alive because it requires that any work derived from it any way must also be licensed under the GPL. It also ensures that the amount of open source projects in the world continues to grow. 


## Question 2
### Eric Raymond identifed several key principles in the development of an open source project. Name the two that strike you as being particularly insightful or significant, and briefly say why you think so.

Two of the points that Eric Raymond identified as key principles in the development of an open source project that struck me as significant are to “release early and often,” and to be “open to the point of promiscuity.” Releasing early and often is important because it means that the project originator didn’t finish the entire project yet. Releasing early gives other developers the chance to find bugs and fix them, or add new features they think is useful that the project originator might’ve never thought to include. It makes the open source project truly open source since the project owner isn’t doing most of the work on his/her own. Releasing early and often can also unlock the full potential of the project by allowing many different people with different needs, ideas, and thought processes to see it and contribute to it. It allows contributors to see the direction the project is going in, which would help them understand the purpose of the project. With that understanding, they’ll be able to make more meaningful contributions to the project. 

The second point that stood out to me was to be “open to the point of promiscuity”. This matters because with an open source project, there will be people making contributions and adding features the project owner would have never thought about. People will also be implementing features in a way that makes sense to them. The project owner may like or dislike those contributions because maybe they go against the original purpose of the project or he/she believes it’s an unnecessary addition. However, with the project being open source, I feel as though it’s not solely up to the project owner to decide what contributions stay or go; it’s up to all the users and contributors of the project. One of the reasons of a project being open source is to have everyone contribute something they’d like to it. Many other people could also end up liking those contributions and finding them useful. The project could end up going in a completely different direction than what the project originator thought, and that could be a good thing if its users enjoy using the project.

> Thank you for reading!
